README.md, before:

# BSoD
<p>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/sotomita/bsod">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/sotomita/bsod">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/sotomita/bsod/total">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Python-gray.svg?logo=Python">
</p>
BSoD(BalloonScope on Deck) is a package in Python for reading and visualizing radiosonde data.  
This module was developed for Seisui-maru 2407 cruise.

<p align="center">
<img src="./fig/emagram.png" alt="emagram" width="200"/>
<img src="./fig/trj_2d_rh.png" alt="RH 2D trajectory" width="200"/><br>
<img src="./fig/trj_3d_animation_rh.gif" alt="RH 2D trajectory" width="400"/>
</p>

## Dependencies
Required packages:

- Numpy
- Pandas
- Matplotlib
- Cartopy
- MetPy
- PyGMT       

To run ```plot_3d_trajectory_animation.csh```, the following are required
- tqdm
- ImageMagick  

(example: Anaconda env.)
```
conda install -c conda-forge numpy pandas matplotlib cartopy metpy pygmt tqdm imagemagick
```   
## Usage
### preprocess
1. Prepare field_book.csv
example:  
```
st_name,JSTtime,sonde_no
St.4a,2024-06-18_06:01,1101771
```
2. Run ```bsod.util.get_qcdata()```  

(See also ```sample/script/preprocess.py```)
### visualization
- emagram: ```bsod.plots.emagram()```
- 2D trajectory: ```bsod.plots.plots_trajectory2d```
- 3D trajectory: ```bsod.plots.plots_trajectory3d```  
(See also ```sample/script/figures.py```)

## Sample
### radiosonde data  
```sample/data/raw_data```  
Sample data was observed in Seisui-maru 2407 cruise  
(2024年度　三重大学　陸海空・環境科学実習).  
### field book 
```sample/data/field_book.csv```   
### script
- ```sample/scrpit/libcheck.py```  
check the dependencies.
- ```sample/script/preprocess.py```  
conduct quality Control
- ```sample/script/figures.py```  
plot emagram and 2D/3D trajectory
- ```sample/script/plot_3d_trajectory_animation.csh```  
plot animation of the 3D trajectories.(C shell)
- ```sample/script/plot_3d_trajectory_animation.py```   
same as above.(Python)



## Author
Sou Tomita

Commit message:

add  generate animation script in Windows

README.md, after:

# BSoD
<p>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/sotomita/bsod">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/sotomita/bsod">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/sotomita/bsod/total">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Python-gray.svg?logo=Python">
</p>
BSoD(BalloonScope on Deck) is a package in Python for reading and visualizing radiosonde data.  
This module was developed for Seisui-maru 2407 cruise.

<p align="center">
<img src="./fig/emagram.png" alt="emagram" width="200"/>
<img src="./fig/trj_2d_rh.png" alt="RH 2D trajectory" width="200"/><br>
<img src="./fig/trj_3d_animation_rh.gif" alt="RH 2D trajectory" width="400"/>
</p>

## Dependencies
Required packages:

- Numpy
- Pandas
- Matplotlib
- Cartopy
- MetPy
- PyGMT       

To run ```plot_3d_trajectory_animation.csh```, the following are required
- tqdm
- ImageMagick  

(example: Anaconda env.)
```
conda install -c conda-forge numpy pandas matplotlib cartopy metpy pygmt tqdm imagemagick
```   
## Usage
### preprocess
1. Prepare field_book.csv
example:  
```
st_name,JSTtime,sonde_no
St.4a,2024-06-18_06:01,1101771
```
2. Run ```bsod.util.get_qcdata()```  

(See also ```sample/script/preprocess.py```)
### visualization
- emagram: ```bsod.plots.emagram()```
- 2D trajectory: ```bsod.plots.plots_trajectory2d```
- 3D trajectory: ```bsod.plots.plots_trajectory3d```  
(See also ```sample/script/figures.py```)

## Sample
### radiosonde data  
```sample/data/raw_data```  
Sample data was observed in Seisui-maru 2407 cruise  
(2024年度　三重大学　陸海空・環境科学実習).  
### field book 
```sample/data/field_book.csv```   
### script
- ```sample/scrpit/libcheck.py```  
check the dependencies.
- ```sample/script/preprocess.py```  
conduct quality Control
- ```sample/script/figures.py```  
plot emagram and 2D/3D trajectory
- ```sample/script/plot_3d_trajectory_animation.csh```  
plot animation of the 3D trajectories.(C shell)
- ```sample/script/plot_3d_trajectory_animation.py```   
same as above.(Python)   
If you are using Windows, uncomment the commands under "IF Windows" and comment out the commands under "IF Linux" in ```plot_3d_trajectory_animation.py```.



## Author
Sou Tomita
